>> [MUSIC]
>> Kyle Simpson: There is this conceptual
model for how JavaScript works, and
that conceptual model is called hoisting.
As I will suggest to you, it's not
really physically what actually happens.
If you open up the spec You'll not
find the word hoisting anywhere,
because hoisting isn't actually a thing.
It's a mental construct
that we have invented
to explain the behaviors of JavaScript.
So I'm just going to present to you
what the concept of hoisting is.
When we look at this code,
if I asked you what is the value
of the variable on line 1?
Or what happens, how does line 1 execute?
Going back to what we already discussed
earlier, back before our break,
how it is gonna execute line 1?
>> Speaker 1: It won't do it first,
it'll run through and define a and b.
>> Kyle Simpson: Exactly.
Good catch.
The fact is that it will
go through first and
compile this code before it executes it.
We all think in terms of no it's just
gonna execute lines 1 through 6 in order.
But that's not true.
What it's actually gonna do, it's gonna go
through and find the declarations first.
So, rather than thinking that
a would be undeclared on line 1,
in reality the best way to think about
this code is that those variable
declarations were moved to the top.
They were treated first
during the compile phase, and
then the assignments were left in place.
And this moving to the top
thing is what we call hoisting.
The fact that declarations of variables
and the declarations of functions,
it is said that they are hoisted
to the top of the code.
They're not actually hoisted,
it's just that they get handled
during the compile phase.
So you could think of it as,
the compile phase is lines 1 and 2, and
the execution phase is lines 3 through 8.
Does that make sense?
>> Speaker 2: So all the LHS stuff is
happening at compile time?
>> Kyle Simpson: That's correct.
>> Speaker 2: And RHS
>> Kyle Simpson: That's exactly correct,
yeah.
>> Speaker 4: Hey,
Kyle.
>> Kyle Simpson: Yeah.
>> Speaker 4: I'm not sure if this was
intentional or not, but the code me
link on the previous slide for 37,
links to the same thing
as the one on slide 32.
>> Kyle Simpson: 37 The code embedded here
links to where?
>> Speaker 4: The previous of
example of the tri catch let hack.
>> Kyle Simpson: That's definitely
a mistake, thanks for catching that.
So, this is how the JavaScript engine
conceptually could handle it or
could treat the variables.
This also goes for functions by the way.
Let's figure out how
this go is gonna work.
Anybody have an idea on how
it's gonna execute line one?
>> Kyle Simpson: Well first it's going to
say, I've got an a.
I've got an LHS reference called a.
Is it going to find an a declared?
Obviously yes.
Then it's going to say I have
an RHS reference for a b.
Is it gonna find a b declared?
Yes, because the function b was
declared during the compile phase.
So it's going to try and
execute the function b.
It's gonna say, I've got an RHS
reference for a variable called c,
is it gonna find c was declared yet?
>> [INAUDIBLE]
>> Kyle Simpson: It was declared
because the compiler
declared everything first.
But what values is c going
to have at that point?
>> [INAUDIBLE]
>> Kyle Simpson: On line one what value
does c have?
>> Speaker 4: Undefined.
>> Kyle Simpson: Still undefined.
So when we return back undefined,
undefined is going to go in to a.
Did everybody follow that?
Reasoning.
Let's try line 2.
Got an LHS reference for
a variable called c.
Does it exist?
Yes.
Okay.
Got an RHS reference for
a variable called d.
Does it exist?
>> Speaker 1: Yes.
>> Kyle Simpson: What is
it's value at point?
>> Speaker 1: Undefined.
>> Kyle Simpson: Undefined.
So we're gonna attempt to execute
a function that is undefined.
Which is obviously going to be an error.
So did everybody see why the function
expression did not get, as we say,
hoisted.
Whereas the function declaration did?
This is the proper way to
think about this code.
Functions are get moved to the top first
then all your variables get moved.
And then you start executing as of line 7.
>> Kyle Simpson: So
it's very clear from this look
of the code why d doesn't yet
have the function expression in it.
>> Kyle Simpson: Questions about hoisting?
I shy away from saying think
about code in terms of hoisting.
I'm explaining it to you
because it is the predominant
conceptual model that JavaScript
developers are taught.
I think it's much better to just think
about things in terms of what I've already
taught you about compilers.
The compiler pulls out
the declarations first, so
of course it's gonna
find all declarations.
But this is another visual
way of thinking about
it.
>> Speaker 2: So you can't call a function
expression before-
>> Kyle Simpson: Before it's been given
it's value.
>> Speaker 2: In the code.
>> Kyle Simpson: Yeah.
[COUGH] Okay, now it is also true
in this previous slide here.
I'm sorry, slide 40.
I indicated that the function
b got hoisted first.
And you may wonder, how do you know,
as is that true, and
is it possible to even tell?
It is technically possible
to actually prove
that functions are hoisted
before variables.
And this next slide will illustrate,
sort of a proof of that.
This next slide will run.
The foo call happens even though
the declarations have not occurred
in the code.
Because both of these
declarations will get moved, but
if you were to think about
this in terms of the hoisting.
First, this function is gonna get hoisted,
and
then this function is gonna get
hoisted which overrides it.
So multiple, duplicate function
declarations get overridden.
But then the var foo = 2.
That var foo, when it gets hoisted,
it's an ignored declaration cuz
there's already a variable called foo,
and it hold this function here.
So the way this code executes, this
foo will end up running this function.
It won't try to be value 2 or foo.
Take away from this is don't [LAUGH] don't
re-declare stuff a whole bunch of times,
and don't make a bunch of, don't share the
same name re-declared a bunch of different
times and you won't have this weirdness.
>> Speaker 3: It's
a way that the function gets written but
not the variable.
Does it look like?
>> Kyle Simpson: Why?
Just the way it's specified.
Function declarations are a declaration
that implied the value
comes along with it.
Variable declarations,
the value is left as executable code so
it doesn't get hoisted.
>> Kyle Simpson: Now,
some of you maybe asking why is it
the JavaScript does this hoisting thing?
Why does hoisting or
why does the compiler have to pull
out the declarations ahead of time?
Why is that required?
Because it seems like it might make
your code harder to understand.
Wouldn't it be easier if JavaScript
just worked in a top-down fashion?
So how many of you know what recursion is?
Okay, recursion for those of you who
didn't raise your hand it's fine.
Recursion is when a function calls itself.
Foo calls foo over and over again
until some terminating decision.
Was there a question at all?
>> Speaker 4: Yeah, there was a request
for you to shout out the line number
when you're pointing at stuff.
It's harder for people to see.
>> Kyle Simpson: Okay.
Trying to do that.
I will try to do that more.
Okay, so
recursion's when a function calls itself.
Anybody ever heard of mutual recursion?
Not as many people.
This is more of computer
science geeky thing,
I'm one of those people that
geeks out on that stuff.
Mutual recursion refers to two or
more functions calling each other.
And, there's a whole class,
a small class, but there is a class
of computer science problems which
are not practically solvable.
They are technically solvable, but not
practically solvable without the concept
of mutual recursion, because it requires
tracking separate stacks, okay?
So A calls B, B calls A,
A calls B, B calls A,
until some terminating condition when
they stop calling each other, okay?
So mutual recursion,
if you think about it,
would be impossible in
a language without hoisting.
Because one of the functions would
always be declared too late.
A would be declared before b,
but b requires a, so
it would have to be swapped places and
then they couldn't happen.
As an example here for instance, a, b, and
c are calling each other in
a mutually recursive way.
One of these will always
be declared too late.
Unless there was some concept of
the declarations getting hoisted.
An interpreted language,
if you will, could not handle this.
Because it would try to parse function a.
And it would say, well,
I don't know about function b yet.
So you would've had to put b first.
And then, it could have done b and then a.
But b would have required c to be first.
So c would have to be first.
But c requires a to be first.
So it would be impossible for
it to parse this if it didn't have
some concept of moving declarations.
Anybody ever wrote C code?
Way back in the day, the C language.
Remember header files?
Header files are manual hoisting.
You're putting the declarations at
the top of what the compiler handles.
Because that compiler
doesn't automatically hoist.
So JavaScript just automatically
hoists rather than forcing
you to do header files.
Okay.
As a slight piece of trivia, I'll give you
about 15 seconds if anybody wants to try
their hand at figuring out what this
mutual recursion value returns.
>> Speaker 1: Something greater than 20.
>> Kyle Simpson: It is something greater
than 20.
You only get two guesses.
And no, 42 is not the right answer.
>> Kyle Simpson: I love when I ask this
question because three fourths
of the room is intent, and
then there's one fourth of the room
that's like, f that, I'm not even trying.
[LAUGHS]
>> Speaker 3: Is it seven?
>> Kyle Simpson: It's not seven.
>> Speaker 1: That's great, keep going.
14, 15, 17,
34, 35.
>> Kyle Simpson: Not 35.
>> Speaker 1: Yeh so much for me.
>> Kyle Simpson: [LAUGH]
>> Speaker 2: 36.
>> Kyle Simpson: Not 36.
Five seconds.
>> Kyle Simpson: The answer's 39.
Let me show you how we
get there real quick.
We start out passing in
the value 1 into the function a.
Is 1 greater than 20?
Nope.
So then we pass 1 plus 2,
which is the value 3.
We pass that into b.
b gets the value 3,
it passes that straight through but
it puts a + 1 in the stacks.
We'll come back to that one.
Remember we've gone through b1,
so there's a + 1 hanging out.
So it passes through the value 3,
and 3 times 2, on line 11,
3 times 2 is the value 6.
6 gets passed back into, a.
Is 6 greater than 20?
Nope, so it keeps going.
6 + 2 is 8, 8 passes into b,
8 passes straight through,
we have another + 1 on the stack,
so we got + 2 on the stack.
8 passes through, 8 times 2 is 16,
16 passes into a, is 16 greater than 20?
No.
16 plus 2 is 18, 18 passes into b,
18 passes straight through, we got another
+1 on the stack so we got a plus 3,
18 passes through, 18 time two is?
>> Speaker 1: 36.
>> Kyle Simpson: 36, is that greater
than 20?
So we return 36,
we go back through the stack 3 times,
36 plus 3 is 39.
>> Kyle Simpson: All right,
this is just illustrating.
I already kinda told you about this,
got you, I forget I had this slide.
This illustrates for you technically
the spec, it's a terrible name for it, but
they call it the temporal dead zone.
Between the beginning of the block
on line 2, and where the let occurs,
in this case on line 4,
if you try to reference the variable
before it has been declared with a let.
That's called referencing it
in the temporal dead zone and
it's a reference error.
>> Speaker 2: There's no hoisting of lets.
>> Kyle Simpson: Yes.
I say there's no hoisting of lets.
When I said that out loud on
twitter Allen on the committee
was like no no no it's not hoisting
at all you shouldn't call it that but
they like to call it
the temporal dead zone.
But I would just tell
you let's don't hoist,
because that's the what you
need to know definition.